---
layout: post
title: DAO and VO
---


We have learnt what a MVC architecture Java project is, now let's dive deeper into the concepts of DAO and VO, which lies in the Model layer of MVC.

DAO --> Data Access Object  
VO --> Value Object

## Topics
1. What are DAO and VO?
2. How do they work?
3. How to implement DAO and VO with Servlet/JSP MVC pattern?

## 1. What are DAO and VO?  
**DAO**  
- It is an object that acceesseds data through DB query  
- If one DAO class is created for each DB table, maintenance becomes easier  
      
**VO**  
- The columns in a DB tables are created as member variables, and the column values of the table are used to treat the column values as objects in java
- data is encapsulated and made into an object
- eg. if there are id, name, phone columns in the User table, id, name, phone member variables exist in UserVO class and **access to them is handled by getters and setters**
    

## 2. How do they work?  
Example situation: A membership situation  
On a registration page, there is a form to enter data. In the servlet, when member data is passed, values is stored in the user table of the DB.  
Suppose there are columns named id and password in the User table.  
- UserVO  
  - has id and password member variables
  - assign user input values to each variable
- UserDAO
  - connect to DB by JDBC and create connection
  - receives member information as a VO object and writes and executes a query to isert it into DB
  
ref: https://img1.daumcdn.net/thumb/R1280x0/?scode=mtistory2&fname=http%3A%2F%2Fcfile7.uf.tistory.com%2Fimage%2F9901FC445AADF2033302F6
    
## 3. How to implement DAO and VO with Servlet/JSP MVC pattern?    
>this method is also known as Model 2 method  
  
  
a) create UserVO class  
  - the VO class needs to have the same member variable as the column name of the DB table to be encapsulated  
  - in our example, the columns are name, email, pwd  
  - member variables are accessed through getters and setters  
  
b) create the UserDAO class  
  - the role of DAO is all about accessing DB and performing queries

c) create a servlet class
  - implement doGet and doPost
  - by calling req object's getParameter() method, it receives the member information data from client and assign values to the UserVO object
  - pass the UserVO object as an argument by calling the insert() method of the UserDAO object
  - DAO then executes query and insert data into DB
  - response page should be displayed to client redirecting to jsp
  
d) create a jsp file  


### The flow of the project would be:  
User reach at registerForm.jsp  --> User input data and submit --> in servlet, by calling req object's getParameter(), the member information data value from user will be assigned to UserVO --> the UserVO object is passed as argument by calling UserDAO object's insert() method --> UserDAO object executes query --> redirect user to jsp file again


ref: https://img1.daumcdn.net/thumb/R1280x0/?scode=mtistory2&fname=http%3A%2F%2Fcfile3.uf.tistory.com%2Fimage%2F99787E505AADF7B1352889
